- If Python Language makes a sentence, how beautiful those sentences can be, is what translates to algorithms and data structures.
- Algorithms can change from boring to life changing because they formalize steps required for accomplishing results in life as well as programming.
- For example, Merge-Sort, in comparison, outperforms most other algorithms in sorting tasks and Recursion(my favorite) defines itself as the larger whole that is assembled by its smaller self, recursively.
- There are many resources and ways one can learn algorithms and data structure with. In my case, well laid-out udemy course by Jose helped me find great resources for diving into algorithms and data structures.
- Two courses from [MIT](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-006-introduction-to-algorithms-fall-2011/) and [Stanford](https://online.stanford.edu/lagunita-learning-platform) are also excellent valuable resources, to have firmer grasp on algorithms and design analysis.
- Although many can use programming, there are many more still that do not. Graphical User Interfaces, such as Python’s de-facto Tkinter, benefit desktop users by allowing quick and intuitive interfaces to all kinds of applications such as Stock Portfolio, YouTube Video Downloader or even Python IDE.
- Python implementations of the common but important algorithms and data structures are covered in notes briefly and as for the project, AlgoPlay, i.e Tkinter GUI , tinkers with Recursive Sum, Factorial Sum and Fibonacci Sequence to realize how few steps, depending upon algorithm, lead to drastic change in results.
